We are going to continue
on with our optimizations.
So if you cannot remember
where we just were,
we did a third optimization merge
with the second optimization,
which of course is gonna be moving
promises completely out of our main area.
So our hotspot is now depromisified.
And second thing was to move away
from JavaScript processing of frame
data in WebSockets and move it all
into C++ using micro WebSockets,
which is a very, very, very good library.
I absolutely love them.
Bun uses them.
Bun's been enjoying all
the performance accolades.
And a lot of that is just simply because
they try to do as little as possible with
JavaScript, very, very good at that.
So what we're gonna do now is we're just
gonna actually do a continued measurement
and see, do we actually see a difference
if we include our update function win?
Now, remember, our update function does
win, it doesn't win a whole bunch, but
it does win.
And so maybe we have room to even
make it better, faster, stronger,
we're just not doing it
at this current moment.
Okay, so we're gonna jump over
here to our third one, and
I'm gonna add this git commit.
I forgot to do this, third opt.
There we go.
Yeah, we don't need to push that.
Git checkout, let's call it fto.
So we're gonna check this out.
We're gonna do fto, and we're gonna
merge in the first optimization.
So git merge fo.
There we go, awesome.
So now we have the improved update
function, plus we have the removed
promises, plus we have the C++
processing of frame data for WebSockets.
So I think we have as good of
a program that we can have right now,
because there's no more
optimizations we can add.
So yeah, this looks pretty good.
We'll actually add some more.
So let's jump over to here,
and let's do one more run.
And we're gonna call this one fto and
we're gonna just run it at 2000.
Sounds good?
Sounds great,
thank you very much for saying that.
All right, so let's go to cargo, 2000.
This one, fantastic.
Go over here, I'm gonna highlight this,
and we're gonna add in fto, there we go.
Does this make a difference?
I'm hoping we see a bit of a difference.
So we're gonna let this thing run for
a little bit.
And maybe we'll check it out on the perf,
see how much time is left
over on the update function.
Because at this point, our update function
making that faster, despite it showing up
as almost always a top line item, is just
not meaningfully impacting our program.
A little bit, but not a lot of it.
And so I'm very curious if
we're gonna see something here.
And so it doesn't look like we're still
seeing pretty much anything at this point,
which is a little too bad.
I mean, it still hasn't quite hit enough.
Maybe we just didn't make it fast enough.
We can check out how much time
it's actually still running.
Maybe we just haven't hit that point where
it really starts making a difference.
And so one of the big problems, of course,
is that anytime you run things,
you're gonna get slightly
different results,
especially if you're
running it on localhost.
Often I find that when
I restart my system,
I'll just get simply different
results than I got before.
Because again, this ain't production,
this is localhost,
take it with a grain of salt.
So we'll cut this thing down.
And so
we're still not seeing a whole bunch,
Which is a little sad to see cuz
it just feels like it should.
So we're now gonna do an inspect, and
let's just see what is our opportunity
potential size of the update function.
All right, we'll do that, we'll do this.
And let's go over to our
performance side of things.
And once we get a few of these running,
we will go in here and we'll hit Record.
Gonna wait ten seconds again.
You don't need a ton of time in here,
I find that usually if I go longer,
the numbers do change a little bit.
It just takes longer and
longer to process because it is
displaying all of those little items.
And so it's not necessarily that great.
So it looks like our update function is
still taking a lot of time right now.
And so we probably have
something that we could improve.
Another thing to look at is that
we're still largely idle, so
maybe we just haven't
put enough pressure yet
to really see is this thing still
affecting it at maximum load?
Because our server's gotten way more
efficient than it ever was before.
So maybe there's some problems here.
We're having a bit of a testing problem,
if you will.
And so let's just start.
Actually, well,
before I say what we're going to do,
let me check my notes because I
think we got some good things going.
All right, so we're gonna rethink
the update function again.
And this is a technique that,
I mean, okay, so
it's hard to call this a technique,
but it is a technique.
I'm gonna try to do this in a way
that helps people understand,
cuz I see it constantly.
You'll see this, I'm guaranteeing,
you do this, I do this, we all do this.
So what can we say is true
about the update function?
What does it do?
It takes the bullets and
compares them against each other
to see if they've collided, and
compares them against player one and
player two to see if they've collided.
But if you remember during the beginning,
the bullets shoot in a straight line.
Only the first two
bullets can ever collide.
Do we ever need to check if there
is a collision with the player and
a bullet, if there exists two bullets,
one from each player?
No, because if there's two bullets,
they can never hit each player.
If there's only bullets from one player,
then there actually is a chance for
it to be able to hit a player.
And so this is called
project-specific optimizations.
Actually really thinking
about your problem and
stop trying to program
the general solution.
Often you'll find yourself
making these generalized
functions because at some point in
the future, things might change.
And though that can be good, it often, a,
leads you down a point of just abstraction
and which causes you to not
actually write as good of code.
But b, you also just make things slower
cuz you're planning on some future state
where things are gonna change drastically.
And is that the case for this?
Well, no, for the case of this,
we're not changing.
So let's try to think about our update
function and exactly what it needs to do.
And so I'm gonna make this change and
we're gonna branch off of
the third optimization.
We're gonna call this one blazingly-fast,
okay?
We're gonna make a very specific change to
only address the problem we're addressing.
Cuz right now, again, we are solving,
if we look at the function,
we are truly solving the general case.
Any bullet can hit any other bullet,
any bullet could hit a player, but
that's not the case in reality.
Only certain conditions have to be met for
things to happen.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna actually
re-kinda create how we do PlayerState, and
I'm gonna paste these in here.
We're gonna do b1, b2.
We're gonna have Bullet array,
Bullet array.
I did not do that well,
Bullet array, fantastic.
We're gonna drop this bullet because
we really don't need that one.
And I'm gonna go b1,
copy that, b2, fantastic.
So we're gonna create two new arrays.
And now we're gonna do the exact same
thing, when we call for PlayerState,
we're also gonna call for
the specific bullet set for that player.
And then when we do update functions,
we're only gonna check the front bullets.
We don't need to check all the bullets for
collision.
So I'll first go all the way down here
where we actually do the updating.
This one,
we're gonna take in a Bullet array, right?
Probably should have called it bullets
because it makes more sense to be
called bullets.
So there we go, we have bullets.
And then up here we can call this
bullets and we're gonna go getBullets.
I can't keep saying that phrase,
it's getting really weird sounding.
And we're gonna go down here and
we're gonna getBullets, and
this is gonna return, [LAUGH] Bullets.
And that is gonna be s/b/gc.
No, yes, no, yes, no.
There we go, fantastic.
All right, so now we kinda have this
thing effectively programmed right here.
And so now we need to do
the actual update function.
So now we're adding player 1
bullets to play player 1 array,
player 2 bullets to player 2 array.
This should hopefully get us also
an additional speed up because we're no
longer having one big array.
So when we remove bullets, we're always
removing from the front of the list.
So we were shifting, say, 28 bullets.
Now, we'll only be shifting
sets of 14 when they collide.
Maybe it makes a difference,
maybe it doesn't.
Probably doesn't, but you never know.
So let's go, let's think about this.
The first thing we wanna do is go for,
I guess we can go constant b of this.b1,
all right?
And go updateBullet(b, delta).
Paste that in there.
There we go.
We need to update all the positions
of the bullets that we did before.
And now let's do the actual checking.
Let's go const b = this.b1[0], b2[0].
If b && b2, oopsies, then we only
need to check for a collision.
We don't need to check,
do you collide with other players?
We don't need to check any of that because
it's already kind of been solved, right?.
So we can just come here and b1, b1,
and we're just gonna simply shift.
I know shifts, this should make
you uncomfortable seeing that b1.
When you see a shift, you should think,
okay, we could probably do better here,
cuz shifts mean that we're adjusting
all the indices from the front.
It's the worst case scenario removed from
an array, probably not the best way to go.
But hey, we now have more information
to think about for later on.
So let's do a little b.
If only b exists, that means we
need to check against player 2.
So I'll just come in here, drop that in.
Else if b2 exists, then we only need
to check against player 1, right?
b2, there we go.
So it's really that simple.
We actually don't even
need these returns here.
And that means all of this goes away.
So now we kinda have this, well,
really much more optimized way
we're attempting to do things.
We're really only doing
the absolute minimum for
this specific problem and nothing else.
And that's really my concern here.
Now, just to make sure
everything's working,
I'm gonna do an npm run test game.
We don't need to test
the integration at this point,
we're only changing the bullets.
As long as they collide, move, and
do all the things,
we've probably done something right.
Hey, this doesn't work anymore.
You're absolutely right,
it should be b1.length + game.b2.length,
fantastic.
You forgot to make this also,
again, right?
Thank you, TypeScript,
saving my bacon with all this classing.
I know everybody loves classes, so
there we go, we made it all work.
This is beautiful, so
now this is working again.
So, does this make a difference?
So, of course,
what's the first thing we do?
We've made a small change,
we've made a hypothesis, now we validate,
have we actually made a real change?
Well, it's a good question.
I also forgot to do git status,
git checkout -b blazingly-fast, okay?
Cuz we're gonna really just make
this thing run as small as possible.
All right, so let's go like this, a tsc,
we're gonna run with
inspect under bf-2000.
I'm also positive if I just increased
the connection amount, we'd start seeing
differences, but I would love to see it
if we could see it at the smaller level.
All right, so I'm just gonna hit
Record again, see how we do.
I'm hoping to see something good.
All right, so our update function
does look a touch smaller.
Last time it was sitting around,
what was it, 20%?
We're now down to about 10% of the time.
So I think we've made a good thing.
We could kinda go back and forth and
test it a couple of times to see,
are we actually making a difference?
But to me, this looks like a big W.
We've again just made the amount of time
we're processing JavaScript just keep
shrinking.
Look at our idle time.
Our idle time is through the roof and
we're at 2000 connections.
I'm pretty sure we can increase
the amount of connections and
probably not see a huge
degradation in performance.
So I think there could be
a there there at this point.
I'm happy about what I'm seeing.
So let's try the old,
we'll drop the inspect.
I'm gonna go rm /tmp/bf-2000 cuz
we don't want that because we had
the old inspect flag on there.
Which if you think about it,
I mean, it's still really crazy.
At the beginning of the day when we first
ran our program, 500 was 32% of the time.
We were having bad frames.
Now we're at 2000,
significantly less than that.
And so you can make even a slow
thing still fast relative to itself.
Now, if we were to write this in Rust,
we could probably do 10,000
games all running on time.
It's a different order of scale, but
then you're also writing in Rust, and
then you have to tell people
about you writing in Rust.
Then there's a whole set of complications.
Then you start tweeting about it.
It's very complicated,
you probably don't wanna do that.
Not at your stage in career.
It's really only when you wanna ride
into the sunset do you do that.
Okay, well, look at that, our ratio is
actually also looking really, really good.
We may have actually made some sort of
dent using our update function speed up,
so this is really, really good.
I'm very, very happy about that.